=head1 Assholes

We weren't expecting to find an asshole this early, but here's part of
the IRC log from #dn42:

=over

=item j> spam

=item somerandomnick> j: I'd suggest not spamming here ;-)

=item somerandomnick> Feel free to spam #anonet :-)

=item j> sorry, died for a bit

=item j> I'm working on updating my spamming script to target here

=item j> I just need to add a cupple lines

=item j> Why not?

=item somerandomnick> because dn42 doesn't like spam

=item j> What will they do about it?

=item somerandomnick> They will complain to me :-)

=item j> What keeps me from spamming them directly, not through here?

=item somerandomnick> j: That's between you and them.

=item somerandomnick> but if you spam them through here, they will complain to me

=item j> Yes but I need you for telnet

=item j> Otherwise this won't work

=item somerandomnick> j: then I suggest staying with #anonet

=item somerandomnick> j: You can spam #anonet as much as you want.  I don't mind.

=item j> fine, you spoil all my fun. Later

=item j> I"ll get a good few spams in here later on

=item Ivo> j, why?

=item j> but not to many

=item somerandomnick> j: LOL, sorry ;-)

=item j> well, if I succeed in annoying two networks so they part from each other, I've succeeded.

=item Ivo> uh?

=item somerandomnick> LOL

=item Ivo> what two networks?

=item somerandomnick> j: I don't think we're about to part from each other.

=item j> I haven't been spamming here yet

=item somerandomnick> but if I get complaints from dn42 about you, I think anonet will have to part from you

=item j> how?

=item lex> j: Exactly why are you even interested in spamming? It is not considered a gracious activity in the slightest

=item j> I just do it to annoy the shit out of everyone.

=item lex> j: And you take some kind of crazy pleasure from annoying other people?

=item Ivo> j, I really don't understand why you would do that

=item j> It's just base64-encoded /dev/urandom, but it'll fill up screens, irc logs, and make it hard to have  areal conversation with that going on.

=item somerandomnick> j: What's wrong?

=item somerandomnick> You come to anonet to test your spam script, I say no problem,

=item somerandomnick> and offer to help.

=item somerandomnick> I didn't even hear 1 "thank you" and never asked for one either.

=item j> well

=item j> You can't stop me even if you wanted to

=item somerandomnick> If your goal is to have a contest, I'm willing to take your challenge.

=item j> I'm just out to cause problems for anonet and be an asshole. Later

=back

=over

=item somerandomnick> Sorry, guys, for the spam ;-)

=item somerandomnick> alice: Sorry about unlinking your server.  I shut down the relay until we can fix the spam problem.

=back

=over

=item j> did it work?

=item somerandomnick> yes

=item somerandomnick> Now, dn42 will depeer us.

=item somerandomnick> ;-P

=item j> good

=item somerandomnick> I think you need to try a bit harder ;-)

=item j> full scale?

=item somerandomnick> still not sure what exactly you're trying to achieve

=item somerandomnick> sure, why not?

=item j> mission goals to annoy people.

=item somerandomnick> If that's your only goal, you aren't doing too bad ;-)

=item somerandomnick> but I think you can guess my goal ;-)

=item j> what is your goal

=item somerandomnick> You can't guess it?

=item j> to stop me, maybe.

=item somerandomnick> well

=item somerandomnick> What would your goal be, if you were in my place and I were in your place?

=item j> I would try to limit the damage one spammer could do.

=item somerandomnick> good guess :-)

=item Ivo> j, I don't understand why you do this

=item Ivo> you want to break some darknets apart?

=item j> yeah!

=item Ivo> which ones?

=item j> I don't know.

=item somerandomnick> LOL

=item Ivo> so, what do you know about darknets?

=item j> nothing.

=item somerandomnick> um

=item Ivo> ok, so why do this?

=item Ivo> why not annoy some other people?

=item Ivo> Im sure you can easily annoy more people on a large irc network

=item j> This is easier. I just telnet to anortr.ucis.nl 8803 and spam.

=item somerandomnick> and how does it help you?

=item j> It doesn't.

=item Ivo> so, what's so much fun ?

=item Ivo> btw, do I know you?

=item j> no

=item Ivo> oh cool

=item Ivo> so how did you find out about anonet?

=item j> what's anonet?

=item j> I just telnet here and start

=item Ivo> how did you find out about this place?

=item j> I found it while searching for telnet servers somewhere.

=item somerandomnick> ;-)

=item Ivo> oh right

=item Ivo> sounds like fun

=item Ivo> so, you were looking for telnet chat servers to send spam ?

=item j> yes

=item j> Is there another one that's more popular?

=item Ivo> damn.

=item somerandomnick> Nobody really uses telnet anymore for chat ;-)

=item somerandomnick> hehe

=item somerandomnick> but if you don't mind writing to IRC, you can use any IRC server ;-)

=item j> irc servers can ban you though.

=item somerandomnick> right

=item somerandomnick> It's possible to ban here too, but it's a bit harder ;-)

=item somerandomnick> You need to get everyone mad at you before it's really possible to ban you here.

=item somerandomnick> but if you succeed, it's equally hard to unban you later

=item Ivo> do you feel good now?

=item Ivo> oh yes, definitely

=item Ivo> oh come on...

=item Ivo> j, I can easily ban you

=item somerandomnick> Ivo: That's a technical accident.

=item Ivo> don't care.

=item j> Youd' have to ban whole of tor.

=item Ivo> :)

=item somerandomnick> How easy or hard it is to ban him isn't the point.

=item Ivo> oh well, we have dns blacklists now

=item somerandomnick> Most IRC networks ban tor, and anonet can also, if necessary.

=item somerandomnick> UFO has full control over that, so even if I prefer to let you stay here, if you annoy UFO enough you're history, and there's nothing I can do about it.

=item j> What, UFO can change the etlnet port?

=item Ivo> :)

=item Ivo> oh yes

=item somerandomnick> He can block tor from the telnet port.

=item j> shit.

=item somerandomnick> He can shut it down completely.

=item somerandomnick> ;-)

=item somerandomnick> and me liking you won't help

=item Ivo> j, where are you from ?

=item j> That isn't important.

=item Ivo> no it isn't

=item Ivo> I'm just interested

=item somerandomnick> j: If you succeed in annoying all ~20 of us on anonet, what does it add to your life?

=item j> nothing.

=item somerandomnick> then why do you want to waste your time on it?

=item j> Because I can.

=item somerandomnick> You enjoy getting banned?

=item j> It's tor, not me.

=item somerandomnick> You're part of tor.

=item somerandomnick> and even in that, we don't have to ban tor completely

=item j> shit.

=item somerandomnick> You just create a little more work for us in spam countermeasures.

=item somerandomnick> You're 1, and we're about 20.

=item j> Pretty soon, you'll get tired of my spam and close anonet.

=item somerandomnick> We can probably develop countermeasures faster than you can develop measures, right?

=item j> right.

=item somerandomnick> j: I won't get tired of your spam for the rest of my life.

=item Ivo> so, do you do this all the time, j?

=item somerandomnick> I love spam.

=item j> yeah

=item Ivo> hmm.. interesting hobby

=item j> off to tweak my script.

=back

After this, UFO censored j by blocking access to IRC from IcannNet.  Hidden tor services have been opened (L<on the main page|http://www.anonet2.org/>), so j can come back and try spamming again.
